\input texinfo @c -*-texinfo-*-
@setfilename odextra.info
@settitle ODEXTRA extensions to the GNU Scientific Library
@finalout

@dircategory Scientific software
@direntry
* odextra: (odextra).                   ODEXTRA extensions to GSL
@end direntry

@c define our special TeX math macros
@c @include mathinclude.texi
@c @include version-ref.texi
@set UPDATED 15 Oct 2011
@set EDITION 1
@set VERSION 1

@iftex
@copying
Copyright @copyright{} 2009-2011 Sergey B Kirpichev.

Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this document under the
terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.3; with no Invariant
Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.  A copy of the license
is included in the section entitled "GNU Free Documentation License".
@end copying
@end iftex

@titlepage
@title ODEXTRA
@subtitle ODE extensions to the GNU Scientific Library
@subtitle Version @value{VERSION}
@subtitle @value{UPDATED}

@author Sergey B Kirpichev
@email{skirpichev@@gmail.com}
@page
@vskip 0pt plus 1filll
@insertcopying
@end titlepage

@contents

@ifnottex
@node Top, Introduction, (dir), (dir)
@top ODEXTRA

This file documents ODEXTRA, a collection of ODE integrators for the
GNU Scientific Library (GSL).

Information about GSL can be found at the project homepage,
@uref{http://www.gnu.org/software/gsl/}.

Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this document
under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License.
@end ifnottex

@menu
* Introduction::
* Functions::
* Examples::
* References and Further Reading::
* GNU Free Documentation License::
* Function Index::
* Variable Index::
* Type Index::
* Concept Index::
@end menu

@node  Introduction, Functions, Top, Top
@chapter Introduction

Library functions are declared in the header file @file{odextra.h}.

@node Functions, Examples, Introduction, Top
@chapter Functions

@section Stepping Functions

Error estimation is carried out by the step doubling method.

@deffn {Step Type} odeiv2_step_midpoint
Implicit Gaussian second order Runge-Kutta.  Also known as implicit
mid-point rule.  Symmetric and symplectic method.
@end deffn

@deffn {Step Type} odeiv2_step_gauss
Implicit Gaussian 4th order Runge-Kutta.  Also known as the
Hammer-Hollingsworth method (symmetric and symplectic).
@end deffn

@node Examples, References and Further Reading, Functions, Top
@chapter Examples

The following program solves the Henon-Heiles problem

@example
@verbatiminclude example.c
@end example

@node References and Further Reading, GNU Free Documentation License, Examples, Top
@chapter References and Further Reading

@itemize @asis{}
@item
Hairer, E., Lubich, C., Wanner, G., @cite{Geometric Numerical
Integration.  Structure-Preserving Algorithms for Ordinary
Differential Equations}, Springer, Berlin, 2006.
@end itemize

@itemize @asis{}
@item
Hairer, E., Norsett, S. P., Wanner, G., @cite{Solving Ordinary Differential
Equations I: Nonstiff Problems}, Springer, Berlin, 1993.
@end itemize

@itemize @asis{}
@item
Hairer, E., Wanner, G., @cite{Solving Ordinary Differential
Equations II: Stiff and Differential-Algebraic Problems},
Springer, Berlin, 1996.
@end itemize

@node GNU Free Documentation License, Function Index, References and Further Reading, Top
@unnumbered GNU Free Documentation License
@include fdl.texi

@node Function Index, Variable Index, GNU Free Documentation License, Top
@unnumbered Function Index

@printindex fn

@node Variable Index, Type Index, Function Index, Top
@unnumbered Variable Index

@printindex vr

@node Type Index, Concept Index, Variable Index, Top
@unnumbered Type Index

@printindex tp

@node Concept Index,  , Type Index, Top
@unnumbered Concept Index

@printindex cp
@bye
